---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: A beginning that can change the course of your career
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-02
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---



Let me be honest with you. All the years of my life, I really thought software design/development was something I wouldn't want to do at all. This also goes with majoring in Information and Computer Science. I thought it was just boring and not that compelling. However it was until I reached my senior year in High School when I learned more about ICS and software engineering. It gave me a whole new perception about what I want to do for the rest of my life. By attending the Software Engineering class, I want to create an extension that detects if some sort of algorithm is trying to attack your computer/devices for sensitive information. I also really want to be fluent in Javascript so that I am able to code without hesitation. 



From what I've learned, we are able to achieve many different skills for software engineering and everyday life. Some of the skills I really want to master is organization and Leadership. These skills can really shape your personality into becoming not only a better coder but a better person. A skill that I believe I am close to mastering is the ability to communicate effectively with other students/co-workers. 


I've been in the software engineering class for a week and a half now. And I can tell that this class will test my persistance and observation skills. But I know that with enough time I believe I can succeed in this class. 

